---
layout: post
title: Advocacy Cheat Sheet 
date: 2025-05-09
Author: Sebastian Monzon
tags: 
comments: false
toc: false
pinned: false 
---

Federal funding agencies like the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space Agency (NASA), and the Department of Energy (DOE) are the backbone of astronomical research in the United States. As graduate students, we are both beneficiaries and stewards of investments into telescope facilities, space missions, fellowships and science grants. The recently-released [Presidential Budget Request](https://aas.org/posts/news/2025/05/week-of-action) for Fiscal Year 2026 proposes a 56% cut in funding for the NSF, a 47% cut for NASA’s Science Mission Directorate and a 14% cut for the DOE Office of Science. Though the American Astronomical Society (AAS) issued a [response](https://aas.org/press/aas-responds-2026-presidents-budget-request), our voices as early-career scientists have the potential to stand out to members of congress.

The AGC has compiled this “Advocacy Cheat Sheet” to help you engage with members of congress who ultimately have the authority to pass funding bills. The AAS has a really nice [Advocacy Reference Guide](https://aas.org/advocacy/get-involved/a-reference-guide-for-how-to-advocate-for-science) that we highly recommend talking a look through to start. Below we have a handful of actions you can take today to make your voice heard! 

---

1. **Reach Out to Your Local Representatives** (low effort, medium impact)

The AAS has streamlined this process by making an online [tool](https://aas.org/advocacy/get-involved/action-alerts/action-alert-2025-support-science) to help you either email or call your representatives. While the automated tool is quick to use, if you have more time, please directly contact your congressional offices to have greater impact:
- Reach out to your [House Rep](http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/) and [Senator](http://www.senate.gov/general/contact_information/senators_cfm.cfm) (they will often have a “Contact” form on their website, or you can email [public.policy@aas.org](public.policy@aas.org) for help contacting the science staffers in your congressional offices).
- Introduce yourself as a constituent and astronomy grad student
- Thank them for any past science support
- Ask them to champion robust funding for NSF, NASA, and the DOE, and explain to them why this funding is important to you. Share any stories of the impact federal funding for science has had on your career. 

2. **Filling Out Appropriations Request Forms** (medium effort, high impact)

Each year, members of Congress collect input from constituents on federal funding priorities. A programmatic appropriations request is how we advocate for specific funding levels for federal agencies. The AAS has a [detailed guide](https://aas.org/posts/action-alert/2025/03/action-alert-support-sciences-through-congressional-constituent-requests) on how to fill out the Appropriations Request Form for your specific representatives. AAS is also maintaining a [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NoHU12JwHeRlvG8FwIAuuTgbxrgP7JqDko8xS06MaqU/edit?usp=sharing) with links to the forms for many congressional offices. Note that many offices have closed their form for this year, but you can still write to them and let them know your funding priorities. Fill in the following for each agency:
- National Science Foundation ($9.9 billion)
- NASA Science Mission Directorate ($9 billion)
- DOE Office of Science ($9.5 billion)

3. **Share Personal Impact Stories** (high effort, medium impact)

Writing a short story about how federal science funding or fellowship support has shaped your life and career can be incredibly impactful. These stories can be shared via the [AAS](https://aas.org/form/share-your-story) (by signing into your account) or can be sent directly to representatives. Remember to be specific and concise.

4. **Set up a meeting with your congressional offices** (high effort, highest impact)

Request a meeting on zoom or at a local district office with your members of Congress, or their staff. 97% of Congressional offices say that a meeting with a constituent influences their decisions. Personal connections help policymakers see firsthand how federal investments in science make a difference. To request a meeting, you can either find a form on your member’s website, or email [public.policy@aas.org](public.policy@aas.org) for assistance! You can also coordinate with your institution’s government affairs office, and consider doing this meeting as a group with other constituents at your institution/department.
